README.rst, before:

Synapse LDAP pasword provider
=============================

- Allows synapse to use LDAP database as a password provider.
- Allows to map mail and msisdn (phone) from LDAP (check usage note!)
- Allows implementing independent account lockout policy, to prevent Active Directory users locking by external bruteforce attack.

Installation
------------

- Via python's package manager from git: `pip install https://github.com/slipeer/synapse-ldap-password-provider/tarball/master`

Usage
-----

Example synapse config:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "synapse_ldap_password_provider.LDAPPasswordProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "samaccountname"
           name: "DisplayName"
           # Optional. Please read usage note!
           mail: "email"
           # Optional. Please read usage note!
           msisdn: "phone"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(&(objectClass=user)(objectCategory=person))"
        # If you do not want your internal users to be blocked from outside
        # by scrambling passwords through this service, then you need
        # implement a more rigid account lockout policy then in yor LDAP server
        # This example user locks after 5 badd attemps to 5 minutes
        account_lockout_policy:
            locktime_s: 300
            attemps: 5


Do not use ``cn`` attribute as uid. It's common mistake: ``cn`` attribute not uniqe in LDAP tree in most schemas!
It's work fine only in very simple LDAP installations without complex Organizational Units structire.
You can use: ``samaccountname``, ``uid`` or ``userPrincipalName`` (depending on the schemes in your system). These attributes are always unique.

Usage note
----------

Use attributes ``mail`` and ``msisdn`` from the LDAP only if your identity server is also integrated with LDAP and looks for 3pd in these attributes.
Otherwise it will not work properly. If you seach identity server with LDAP integration you can try my synapse fork https://github.com/slipeer/sydent

Account Lockout Policy
----------------------
If you do not want your internal users to be blocked from outside
 by scrambling passwords through this service, then you need
 implement a more rigid account lockout policy then in yor LDAP server


Troubleshooting and Debugging
-----------------------------

``matrix-synapse-ldap3`` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically ``homeserver.log``). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
``DEBUG`` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

.. code:: yaml

   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

.. code:: yaml

   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

.. code:: sh


   synctl restart

Commit message:

Add Travis build status to README

README.rst, after:

Synapse LDAP pasword provider
=============================

- Allows synapse to use LDAP database as a password provider.
- Allows to map mail and msisdn (phone) from LDAP (check usage note!)
- Allows implementing independent account lockout policy, to prevent Active Directory users locking by external bruteforce attack.

Travis-CI Build Status
======================
.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/slipeer/synapse-ldap-password-provider.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/slipeer/synapse-ldap-password-provider

Installation
------------

- Via python's package manager from git: `pip install https://github.com/slipeer/synapse-ldap-password-provider/tarball/master`

Usage
-----

Example synapse config:

.. code:: yaml

   password_providers:
    - module: "synapse_ldap_password_provider.LDAPPasswordProvider"
      config:
        enabled: true
        uri: "ldap://ldap.example.com:389"
        start_tls: true
        base: "ou=users,dc=example,dc=com"
        attributes:
           uid: "samaccountname"
           name: "DisplayName"
           # Optional. Please read usage note!
           mail: "email"
           # Optional. Please read usage note!
           msisdn: "phone"
        #bind_dn:
        #bind_password:
        #filter: "(&(objectClass=user)(objectCategory=person))"
        # If you do not want your internal users to be blocked from outside
        # by scrambling passwords through this service, then you need
        # implement a more rigid account lockout policy then in yor LDAP server
        # This example user locks after 5 badd attemps to 5 minutes
        account_lockout_policy:
            locktime_s: 300
            attemps: 5


Do not use ``cn`` attribute as uid. It's common mistake: ``cn`` attribute not uniqe in LDAP tree in most schemas!
It's work fine only in very simple LDAP installations without complex Organizational Units structire.
You can use: ``samaccountname``, ``uid`` or ``userPrincipalName`` (depending on the schemes in your system). These attributes are always unique.

Usage note
----------

Use attributes ``mail`` and ``msisdn`` from the LDAP only if your identity server is also integrated with LDAP and looks for 3pd in these attributes.
Otherwise it will not work properly. If you seach identity server with LDAP integration you can try my sydent fork https://github.com/slipeer/sydent

Account Lockout Policy
----------------------
If you do not want your internal users to be blocked from outside
 by scrambling passwords through this service, then you need
 implement a more rigid account lockout policy then in yor LDAP server


Troubleshooting and Debugging
-----------------------------

``matrix-synapse-ldap3`` logging is included in the Synapse homeserver log
(typically ``homeserver.log``). The LDAP plugin log level can be increased to
``DEBUG`` for troubleshooting and debugging by making the following modifications
to your Synapse server's logging configuration file:

- Set the value for `handlers.file.level` to `DEBUG`:

.. code:: yaml

   handlers:
     file:
       # [...]
       level: DEBUG

- Add the following to the `loggers` section:

.. code:: yaml

   loggers:
      # [...]
      ldap3:
        level: DEBUG
      ldap_auth_provider:
        level: DEBUG

Finally, restart your Synapse server for the changes to take effect:

.. code:: sh


   synctl restart
